Depressive disorders are characterized by sadness severe enough or persistent enough to interfere with function and often by decreased interest or pleasure in activities. Exact cause is unknown but probably involves heredity, changes in neurotransmitter levels, altered neuroendocrine function, and psychosocial factors. Diagnosis is based on history. Treatment usually consists of medications, psychotherapy, or both and sometimes electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) or rapid transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS).  (See also Overview of Mood Disorders.) The term depression is often used to refer to any of several depressive disorders. Some are classified in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th ed, Text Revision (1) by specific symptoms: Major depressive disorder (often called major depression) Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) Other specified or unspecified depressive disorder Others are classified by etiology: Premenstrual dysphoric disorder Depressive disorder due to another medical condition Substance-/medication-induced depressive disorder Depressive disorders occur at any age but typically develop during the mid teens, 20s, or 30s (see also Depressive Disorders in Children and Adolescents). In primary care settings, approximately 13% of patients have a diagnosis of depression (2). The term depression is often used to describe the low or discouraged mood that results from disappointments (eg, financial calamity, natural disaster, serious illness) or losses (eg, death of a loved one). However, better terms for such moods are demoralization and grief. The negative feelings of demoralization and grief, unlike those of depression, do the following: Occur in waves that tend to be tied to thoughts or reminders of the inciting event Resolve when circumstances or events improve May be interspersed with periods of positive emotion and humor Are not accompanied by pervasive feelings of worthlessness and self-loathing The low mood usually lasts days rather than weeks or months, and suicidal thoughts and prolonged loss of function are much less likely. However, events and stressors that cause demoralization and grief can also precipitate a major depressive episode, particularly in vulnerable people (eg, those with a past history or family history of major depression). In a small but substantial number of patients, grief may become persistent and disabling. This condition is termed prolonged grief disorder and may require specifically targeted treatment.'